# Excalibur (Example sentences Calibrated for Use in Research)

## Metadata

* **Status:**  To be started up
* **Type:** Specific
* **Work Package**: WP3
* **Research Coordinators:**  Jan Odijk
* **Coordinators for CLARIAH:**  Jan Odijk
* **Participating Institutes:**  UU 
* **End-users**: Jan Odijk
* **Developers**: UU, UiL-OTS, Jan Odijk; DH Lab, UU (Sheean Spoel, Jelte van Boheemen)
* **Interest Groups**: Text Processing?
* **Task IDs**: T102

## Description

We want to  create  a service to semi-automatically gloss a given example sentence.


### What is the research about?

Linguistics, glossing 

### What problem is hindering the research?

Glossing facility

### What is needed to do the research?

We need a database of linguistic examples which
* Enables linguists to store their example sentence data in the database which is part of the CLARIAH infrastructure, together with some crucial annotations (glosses, translation) and metadata (source (reference, page number, example number), language, phenomenon described, judgment of the data)-accessible to every other researcher via PIDs. This enables enhanced publications
* Enable linguists to search for relevant examples in this database based on words, glosses, grammatical codes, metadata, language, linguistic phenomenon
* Assists linguists preparing example sentences found in the system for their publications (in formats actually used by them, including MS Word, Google Docs, OpenOffice, LibreOffice, LaTeX.
* Enable linguists to automatically or semi-automatically extract example sentences from existing literature (in pdf, word) to store in the example database repository
* Facilities to make a glossary of used grammatical codes, and their mapping to an explicit semantics.
* Facilities to perform checks on the proper use of grammatical codes
* Checks on proper alignment of the  glossing
* Cf. TypeCraft 


#### Data

database of linguistic examples, as describes above.
Initial data will be extracted from Taalportaal.

#### Tools

Translation memory, machine translation, search engines

### What software and services are involved?


### How to evaluate this?

Creation Speed and accuracy (both for content and for layout) of the glossed examples in a scientific article.

## References

References to related resources and publications and especially links to related use-cases:

* TypeCraft https://typecraft.org/tc2wiki/Main_Page 
* D. Beerman & P. Mihaylov (2009). Interlinear glossing and its role in theoretical and descriptive studies of African and other lesser-documented languages. Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technologies for African Languages – AfLaT 2009, pages 74–80, Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009.
* Bickel, Balthasar; Bernard Comrie; Martin Haspelmath (February 2008). "The Leipzig Glossing Rules. Conventions for Interlinear Morpheme by Morpheme Glosses". https://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/pdf/Glossing-Rules.pdf , last retrieved 2021-06-07
