# December 19, 2020

## Actions
- [ ] Inventariseer use cases voor wie, wat en waar bij jullie achterban
- [ ] Kloppen de grote gemene delers?
- [ ] Wat heeft prioriteit voor CLARIAH?
- [ ] NER in scope?

## Input

### Use cases: CLARIAH guidelines and format for use cases

#### Menzo
Use cases
- REPUBLIC: entities encountered in text (HTR/OCR) 
- CLARIN: organisation vocab for normalisation    

#### Sjors
Use cases
1. What is/are the preferred vocabulary/vocabularies for publishing descriptions of catalogs and datasets? E.g. DCAT, VoID, Schema.org?
2. How/where can we find the preferred vocabularies for describing people, places, subjects, etc.? E.g. in a registry?
3. How can I propose a ‘term’ or suggest a change to a term in a terminology source, such as a thesaurus? Various sources have various protocols for this.

#### Leon
Use case: Golden Agents

An entity (person, object, location) can be observed on a scan of a manuscript and/or in a text (HTR) and has been described with some metadata (A2A records, index City Archives) as being part of an event of some type, carrying a role of some type. The availability of (sometimes perdurant) metadata varies across sources. Our goal is to indicate that entities, say persons, that are mentioned in archival material are the same, combining the available data into some kind of storyline per entity, whilst keeping this line of provenance. 
1. We come up with our own ontology, but this has to be aligned to existing existing vocabularies. Which ones, for instance when it comes to describing person-references in these registers?
2. What is the preferred way (best practise) to store/model this (sometimes full text) information in RDF?
3. The challenge of reconciliation: Integration with existing datasets (e.g. Biografisch Portaal, Wikidata, other thesauri). What if there are multiple possibilities? Uncertainty?
4. We face a lot of terms (e.g. Ondertrouw, non-prejuditie, bodemerij) that are not yet stored in a credible thesaurus (i.e. AAT, RCE). How to add those? This holds for: eventtypes, roles/functions, organizations (e.g. Schutterij, Kloveniersdoelen), objects in probate inventories. 

#### Thomas
Use case: HisGIS (who + where): how to deal with the relation between a domain-specific (detailed) model and a more generic description of the data? Two possible linked-data models / ontologies with their own vocab.
~ _“no God ontologies”_

#### Willem
    Use case: GTAA (published in SKOS), persons, places, subjects, corporation names, classification. Alignments for persons with Wikidata.

## Agenda
1. Kloppen de grote gemene delers?
2. Prioriteit?
3. Use cases voor wie, wat en waar
4. NER in scope?
5. Relation between multiple ontologies for the same data

### Grote gemene delers
We still agree

### Use cases
WP leaders should provide the use cases. Will come more clear in january

WP4 use case: How to query across text and structured data

Common use cases:
1. Modelling entities
2. Proposing candidates /changes to an existing vocab
   - ACTION: collect known procedures
      -  e.g. WP4: schema.org first, awesome-humanites-ontologies for specifics, linked open vocabularies for all else.
3. Alignments between domain specific views and more generic views
4. Where to find recommended vocabularies
   - ACTION: collect the ones you know
   - Global or CLARIAH specific
      - e.g. [linked open vocabularies](https://lov.linkeddata.es/)
      - https://folia.readthedocs.io/en/latest/set_definitions.html
      - e.g. https://github.com/CLARIAH/awesome-humanities-ontologies
   - From Registry to document + outliers
   - ACTION[Joe]: look if the setup of BioPortal/AgroPortal can be reused

### Prioriteit
Delayed till we know the WP use cases

### NER in scope?
Not as a process (Text IG), but modelling the outcome is.


### Relation between multiple ontologies for the same data
Doing a fully ontological formally correct mapping is hard. For resource discovery a more simple mapping is easier to achieve.
1. Schema.org helps a lot. 
2. Wikidata has already mappings (e.g. owl:equivalentProperty for [occupation](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P106)).
Complicated by choosing different modelling strategies like Reification, RDF*, named graph, etc.

### Volgende bijeenkomst
ACTION[Menzo]: doodle end jan/begin feb

#### Acties
- Collect from above
- Do we want to be an IG on our own?