# March 11, 2021

## Actions

- [X] Menzo: create a [draft](https://github.com/CLARIAH/IG-Vocabularies/blob/main/docs/20210419-CLARIAH_vocab_registry_a_first%20_sketch.pdf) for setting up a CLARIAH Vocab registry based on YALC or OntoPortal
- [ ] All: review draft
- [X] Menzo: contact @richard about a general IG LOD meeting
- [ ] All: discuss why merge subgroups or become IG? at the general IG LOD meeting
- [/ ] All: which procedures do you know for proposing and handling candidates/changes to an existing vocab


## Input

## Agenda

### Discuss [draft](https://github.com/CLARIAH/IG-Vocabularies/blob/main/docs/20210419-CLARIAH_vocab_registry_a_first%20_sketch.pdf) and next steps

### Discuss procedures we know for proposing and handling candidates/changes to an existing vocab

### Joe: update on Vocab recommender
