# LIDIA (Linguistics Diagnostics Database) 

## Metadata

* **Status:**  In Progress (to be started)
* **Type:** Specific
* **Work Package**: WP3
* **Research Coordinators:**  Jan Odijk
* **Coordinators for CLARIAH:**  Jan Odijk
* **Participating Institutes:** UU
* **End-users**: Jan Odijk, UU
* **Developers**: Jan Odijk, DH Lab UU, Sheean Spoel, Jelte van Boheemen
* **Interest Groups**: ??
* **Task IDs**: WP3 T087

## Description



### What is the research about?

Linguists want to find all arguments for or against the linguistic status of a 
linguistic entity (e.g. a word, a phrase, a grammatical relation) quickly.
Having a tool to faciltate this will accelerate linguistic research, 
will enable systematic argumentation for many linguistic phenomena, and will be an 
essential tool for each linguist.

### What problem is hindering the research?

These arguments are hidden in scientific articles. 

### What is needed to do the research?

Create a database with arguments from the linguistic literature that have been adduced to determine the grammatical category or other linguistic classification. In particular for the grammatical concepts of grammatical relation (subject, object, modifier etc,), syntactic category (NP, VP, S, CP, etc), and part of speech (noun, verb, adjective etc), information structural concepts such as  topic/comment, given / new, etc.
* It is supposed to be descriptive, not normative. Develop a methodology for this explicitly
* Add metadata for each argument: source, language,
* Mark how often the argument has been used in the literature
* Include contrastive argumentation, e.g. subject v. object, object v. indirect object
* Include claimed refutations, i.e. arguments that state that the diagnostics is not valid
* Include explicitly possibly intervening factors that have been identified in the literature
* Take into account that the same term can be used in different senses by different linguists/ articles
* Select the relevant literature, e.g. Syntax of Dutch, Nederlandse Taalkunde (and predecessors), Linguistic Inquiry, Linguistics in the Netherlands, NLLT, and how far do we go back in time
* Select languages to focus on: (1) Dutch; (2) English (3) German,….
* Create facilities to easily find relevant arguments (search, analysis of the search results)
* Develop technology to identify diagnostics for grammatical categories from linguistic publications automatically or semi-automatically


The current project in CLARIAH-PLUS can only be the start, to create a proof of concept. 
It will have to be followed up,
 if successful, by a bigger project, e.g. e  NWO-Groot project

#### Data

Linguistic rersearch articles, with markings in te text for linguistic arguments.

#### Tools

no existing tools. Perhaps annotation tools to annotate PDF documents

### What software and services are involved?

new software to be developed

### How to evaluate this?

Actual use by linguists

## References

References to related resources and publications and especially links to related use-cases:

