# Federated Content Search Strategies Study

**ID**: *T132*

**Author:** *Daan Broeder*

**What exists:**

The CLARIN infrastructure currently supports a distributed content search strategy
called Federated Content Search (FCS). Improvement and extension of this service is worked on
by increasing the number and type of FCS end-points (search-engines) and extending the SQL
protocol for support of more complex queries.

There has been some discussion about the value and future of FCS, and the advantages it offers
in distributed infrastructures where also institute policies and governance issues work often
against a central aggregation scenario. But there is no clear and broad accepted understanding
of the issues involved.

**What must be adapted / extended / created anew:**

Therefore we would propose a task where we would like to investigate the fundamentals of the
FCS strategy

* FCS benefits and feasibility wrt to aggregation scenarios and spend some time on investigating possibilities for increasing efficiency and scalability by:
    * searching directly on distributed but similar structured indexes (canonical index)
    * harvesting and merging such distributed indexes
    * low level brokering of queries on distributed dissimilar structured indexes

We look also at the impact of different strategies on governance issues as data security and
branding.

All Dutch and available non-Dutch FCS experts should be involved

The study should also take non-CLARIN infrastructures into account where similar strategies
(distributed data-mining) are

**Why important for CLARIAH (scientific impact):**

There is no new scientific impact, but it will be very helpful to guide future development of FCS.
There should be good collaboration with the CLARIN EU FCS TF and ideally the result will also
guide the overall CLARIN strategy.

**Targeted/Actual users:**

Technologists and managers of CLARIN/AH

**Actual use (quantify!):**

none as yet

**Lead**: *Meertens Institute 1PM*

**Participants**: *INT: 1 + ?*

**Allocated PMs:** How many PM (person months) have been granted for this task?

## Deliverables

*(Please list all the deliverables of this task, give each an ID (for WP3 something like ``TxxxDy`` where Txxx is the task ID, y the deliverable number) These deliverables should also be mentioned in the WP workplan).*

*(none specified)*

## Milestones

*(Please list all the milestones of this task, give each an ID (for WP3 something like ``TxxxMy`` where Txxx is the task ID, y the milestone number. The milestones should also be mentioned in the WP Workplan).*

*(none specified)*

## References

*(Place any reference here, references to the [CLARIAH use cases](https://github.com/CLARIAH/usecases) are especially encouraged).*

