# SPAQ

**ID**: T136

**Author:** Daan Broeder

**What exists:**

Survey tool to obtain textual representations of examples of oral language use (Lime Survey) as an example, some mobile apps for EL speech data  acquisition.

**What must be adapted / extended / created anew:**

We need:

* A survey tool for obtaining speech data
    * Surveys should be accessible on mobile devices via mobile apps or responsive design
    * Surveys should be accessible via standard browser on desktop/laptop
* Infrastructure for managing the resulting data, providing semi-automatic curation, metadata generation and archiving.

**Why important for CLARIAH (scientific impact):**

Linguists studying language variation currently use surveys to obtain written examples of language use. Having the
speech signal available would greatly enhance their possibilities for comparison and analysis.

**Targeted/Actual users:**

We plan to link this task to the “Vertrokken Nederlands” project from Nicoline van der Sijs that aims to collect data
about the use of Dutch by Dutch emigrants. Currently use LimeSurvey to get written data. They plan to collect also
speech data and are very interested to collaborate with us. Transcription support can be provided by the transcription
workflow at RU.

**Actual use (quantify!):** none as yet

**Lead**: *Meertens Institute (12PM)*

**Participants**: 6PM if needed for app creation / responsive design, possibly by outsourcing

**Allocated PMs:** How many PM (person months) have been granted for this task??

## Deliverables

*(Please list all the deliverables of this task, give each an ID (for WP3 something like ``TxxxDy`` where Txxx is the task ID, y the deliverable number) These deliverables should also be mentioned in the WP workplan).*

* **T136D1** - Service - A survey tool for acquiring speech data
* **T136D2** - Software - Demo App
* **T136D3** - Software - [Embedding in LimeSurvey](https://github.com/knaw-huc/SPAQ)

## Milestones

(none specified)

## References

*(Place any reference here, references to the [CLARIAH use cases](https://github.com/CLARIAH/usecases) are especially encouraged).*

