# WP3 Technical Management

**ID**: *T231*

**Author:** *Maarten van Gompel*

**Introduction:**

This task consists of the technical management of WP3. It consists of:

* Advice to WP3 management related to technical aspects for WP3 tasks. Participation in weekly WP3 management meeting,
    providing feedback on documents.
* Participation in the CLARIAH Interest Groups relevant for WP3
* Some maintenance on legacy system CLAPOP, but focus will primarily be on Ineo as a replacement.

This task was previously in the hands of Daan Broeder, Maarten van Gompel took over from him on April 1st, 2021 for 0.1
fte.

The task also consisted of participation in CLARIN EU organisation and advise with regard to CLARIN certification, but
those parts are **not** taken over by Maarten and a successor for Daan is still being looked for (the other 0.1 fte is
reserved for that). Maarten recommends these issues are transferred to WP2 instead:

> * CLARIN center committee, het vertegenwoordig van NL belangen indien nodig terugkoppelen naar WP3 management en NL CLARIN centers
> * Jan Odijk vervangen in de CLARIN NCF indien nodig
> * Deelname aan de CLARIN committees en task-forces (TF): CLARIN Centre Assessment Committee , Standards Committee, PID TF, AAI TF . Dit naar expertise en mogelijkheid. Er wordt van de verschillende landen een actieve bijdrage verwacht. Op dit moment is die vanuit NL niet zo groot. De committees en TFs zijn ook een belangrijk netwerk om te weten wat er bij andere nationale consortia (technisch) gebeurd.

**Lead**: Maarten van Gompel, KNAW HuC   (previously: Daan Broeder)

**Participants**: Maarten van Gompel, KNAW HuC

**Allocated PMs:** 12PM
