# June 24, 2021

## Actions

- [X] Menzo: go over the list of repositories and see if we can reuse the technology
- [ ] All: Usage scenario & requirements to make platform choice clearer
- [X] Menzo: do we have to go via a use case to propose the Registry as a task?

## Input

### Menzo: the list of repositories and see if we can reuse the technology

1. [OntoPortal](https://ontoportal.org/)
2. [Prefix server](https://github.com/zazuko/prefix-server)
3. [Bartoc](https://github.com/gbv/bartoc.org)
4. [Archivo](https://github.com/dbpedia/archivo)
5. [linked open vocabularies](https://github.com/pyvandenbussche/lov)

### Usage scenario & requirements to make platform choice clearer

#### Sjors

__As a CLARIAH community member...__
1. I want to browse the descriptions of vocabularies
2. I want to search and filter the descriptions of vocabularies [needs full text index of the metadata]
3. I want to see the descriptions of vocabularies (e.g. ‘name’, ‘status’) 
4. I want to see the changes made to the descriptions of the vocabularies (e.g. from ‘recommended’ to ‘not recommended’) [needs: change tracking]
5. I want to propose a new vocabulary for inclusion into the Vocab Registry
6. I want to propose a change to a description of an existing vocabulary
7. I want to be informed about (the status of) my proposals (e.g. get a notification if my suggested change has been approved)
8. I want to inform the community that I have (good or bad) experience with a certain vocabulary and may be contacted for sharing this experience[is this open for everybody?]
9. I want to inform the community that I don’t want to be contacted anymore about my experience with a certain vocabulary [‘undo’ of 8]
10. See the __domain/discipline/topic__ the vocabulary was designed for (e.g. Cultural Heritage, Multimedia, Social Sciences/Demography)
11. See __related classes/properties__ in other vocabularies (external or vocabularies included in the registry). Also with more foundational ontologies. [needs analysis of the vocab on in relation to the other vocabs so not only the vocab on its own]
12. See __preferred modelling strategies__ (e.g. RDF-examples) or plenty of __usage examples__ (data stories?) or __example resources__
13. See in which __projects and datasets__ the vocabulary is used [ what scope?] 
14. Being able to define __mappings__ between classes/properties. [mappings to be treated also as FAIR data][hand crafted and/or automatic?]]
15. See the __license__ (and a preferred citation) for the vocabulary
16. __Download__ the vocabulary in all RDF formats (taking versioning into account, or providing a snapshot)
17. See available extensions to a vocabulary, or see where a vocabulary complements another [needs relationships among vocabs] (e.g. an extension developed for CIDOC-CRM)
18. (Too complex/advanced?): Check the validity/consistency in terms of reasoning of an ontology

__As a CLARIAH Vocab Registry administrator…__
1. I want to configure the fields that are part of a vocabulary description (e.g. ‘name’, ‘status’) [admin UI or is access to a config good enough?]
2. I want to see the new vocabularies that have been proposed by community members and approve or reject them for inclusion into the Vocab Registry
3. I want to see the changes to the descriptions of existing vocabularies that have been proposed by community members and approve or reject them
4. I want to inform community members that have proposed new vocabularies or changes to existing vocabularies about the status of their proposals
5. I want to add or remove the contact details of a community member to or from a description of a vocabulary



## Agenda

### do we have to go via an use case to propose the Registry as a task?
Discussed at the TC:
1. talk to Richard (WP4), connect to the Vocab recommender use case
2. connect registry to WP1 (Ineo), e.g. publish recommended vocabs
3. work together with IG Findability on a metadata profile for L(O)D datasets/vocabularies

### Usage scenario & requirements to make platform choice clearer

Discussed and annotated Sjors proposal, to be incorporated in the sketch.
